hi everybody Bob with knives down here
today we're gonna take a look at a
Mecosta knife now if you're not familiar
with Mecosta you're missing out this is
a excellent knife company what they do
is there
it's a Japanese knife made knife company
they make these knives over in Seiki
City Japan one of the knife making
capitals of the world and what their
philosophy is is to use the most modern
possible techniques laser cut parts CNC
machining but combine that though with
cosmetic elements of traditional
old-world Japanese design and you put
those two together and it's a it's a
winning combination
I really like the makuu stood brand and
and the things that they that they come
out with it they you you definitely know
it's a Japanese knife just from the
design but you also have a thoroughly
modern knife that is that is is I don't
want it to not make a pun but is cutting
edge here's the knife this is the
African evany wood version and it comes
in this this leather and nylon sheath
which is its elegant and rugged at the
same time it's handsome it does have the
Makua
name their brand embossed into the flap
it does this one is a vertical carry so
non and this knife here is you know I
mean this is this is a I guess I suppose
it would fall best into the category of
gentleman's knife it is a pocket knife
but it is the next thing that all of
these makuu stone knives are the next
thing to a custom knife it's it's got
that kind of a feel particularly in the
action take a look at that that is
really I don't think that the the video
can really even do it justice but that
is really a nice looking knife you can
see that wood there that is the the
African Abadie wood and it's it's the
knife I mean the steel also you see this
this it's all been shaped in in the
theme of a ban of bamboo you know the
way the bamboo stick grows you know but
that's of course it's not bamboo but
that is certainly a traditional look of
course for a Japanese knife the bolster
is 55 layer demap nickel Damascus very
nice
you can see the blade perfectly centered
there the pocket clip has a ray skin
look to it again a traditional touch
there the the knife just feels
completely solid and feels custom-made
just just holding it but then you go to
open it wow that is a butter smooth
action I'm not kidding you yeah you can
feel it there in the in the action when
you open it just real attention to
detail and just a buttery smooth action
really a joy all right there's the
profile it's a two and three-quarter
inch blade and that is a full flat grind
that's vg10 steel it's been hardened to
59 to 60 Rockwell it's not a thick blade
but I wouldn't call it exactly thin
either you'll notice that the spine is
polished see that the spine is polished
but the blade itself is satin a nice
touch I like that it's a real really
sharp really sharp and pointed you can
see how it comes to such an edge there
point
dual thumb studs they're not they're not
you know they're not obnoxious or
anything but they're they're they're
enough to get the job done it's a
liner-lock knife this pocket clip is
reversible two screws there so you could
you could take that you could take that
that pocket clip off or you could spin
it around to this side and and of course
that is a lowrider that this would just
this knife would completely disappear in
your pocket you see it would go all the
way up to the top
there's your makuta vg-10
a really fine knife I mean this is this
is as close to custom making as as a
production knife can get they they Mun
make mock-ups with you know like a lot
you know like the car makers do you know
car manufacturers they build like a clay
model car and and look at it that way
before they actually make it they do the
similar thing with their knives here at
Mecosta then the laser cut everything
they machine it out so the tolerances
are just absolutely tight and then if
they assemble it by hand you and and the
whole thing has been designed with a
traditional you know with a nod to
tradition a nod to the to the old-world
Japanese ways and and that it's
certainly not abandoning its heritage
but it is making use of all of the
modern techniques it's great great best
of both worlds this is a knife that
would make a great gift for someone for
a special occasion someone who's a knife
knife you know a connoisseur they would
appreciate this this is the Makuta
african any heart would get the knife
and you get a nice sheath with it all
right thanks for watching I'll see you
again